Why were ETLs created?
Almost a decade back,
data infrastructure world was simpler.
There was transaction and operation data in OLTPs and there were OLAPs.
Data was needed to be aggregated and brought to OLAPs in an expected format.
ETLs were great for that.
With ERPs coming to the picture,
ETLs became even more relevant.
Again, data spread across organization was needed to be fed to ERP data warehouse.
Now that we have background in the history of ETLs,
we should look at some of the challenges ETL processing pipelines have these days.
Some of the challenges with ETLs are: it processes data before loading it.
Amount of data generated in an interface is increasing in leaps and bounds.
Sometimes transformation could end up being millions of line.
This might make it really hard to scale.
In some use cases,
transforming all the data before loading might be an overkill.
Let's consider an example.
You might not need to process all the event data generated on the website at once.
There is a vast variety of data generated these days.
Entity data needs to be treated very differently than event data.
Similarly, structured data, semi-structured data or unstructured data,
they all need specific treatments.
ETLs work best with entity and structured data.
Implementing ETL for other data types can be very challenging.
Data sources are varied and spread across.
We have data on-prem and in cloud,
we have constant streams of data,
and we have batches of data.
With ETL pipeline, it might be difficult and
slow to bring all this data together for use it.